In this video we will see how to display some patterns on the screen using Nested for loop
already in the previous video I have shown you one pattern.
Now in this video I will show you two patterns that are sufficient for making various type of patterns.
So first one is this fun.
I want to draw astricks.
I don't want to box just I want to display astricks so I'm comparing them with i&j values.
OK so I want to display astricks.
So these two nested for loop,
will give us all these values of box like 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 3 1 0 1 1 1 2 1 3 2 0  so on.
So I get all those locations right.
We get all the values of  i&j.
We don't want to print a star every time.
Then when we want to print star, we want to print only these places then how to recognize how to identify
these places.
Soi and j should help us.
Let us check.
i& j,  this one, 00 this one 10, i is 1  j is 0, i is 1 j is 1  OK, I is 2 j is 0,i is 2 j is 1, i is 2 j is 2,
so here if you observe I is greater than J right.
Greater than or equal to j.
And this empty places if you observe I is  zero j is a three I is zero and j is 2 so there J is Greater
so when I have to bring this one if I is a greater than or equal to J print star otherwise don't print
star.
So here I have already explained you this nested for loop endl also  already i have explained
so just I have to write on something here if I is greater than or equal to j then see out star this
is how star is displayed. we want star  side by side only, no need of spaces if you want
spaces then you can give a gap here.
So just one space gap then give codes.
So it will give a gap in between the stars so we get this shape that's all.
So right down this inside the main function you have to declare this i and j  values, variables you have
to declare than just inside the main function you write on  this code and it will run and you'll get this
output on the screen.
Now next I'll show you one more pattern in this video.
Yeah another pattern. see this pattern I want.
So in this pattern if you observe stars are there.
Okay no problem then space then stars are there, then again two spaces and stars are there
I should give spaces now star I have to print as well as the spaces, if I don't give a spaces this
start will come in the beginning right.
If you print it will print it in the corner of a screen if you see the screen like this then four stars are there
ok 4 stars are printed.  then next i need a space then only  I should get a  star
if I don't give space then this is Stars will start from here I want space so space and star so when to print
space and when to print star so look at the spaces here 1 0 2 0 2 1 0 see diagonal means i and j are  equal
and this lower diagonal part, this the lower triangular park I is greater than J
in the diagonal I & j are equal. so whenI is greater than J.
We should give space otherwise give star, so it's simple.
Now here I should write if I is greater than J then cout space so give quotes and gives space then
else what i should print, star so I don't want to give space in between this stars.
So this is for this space and this is for star,
If I is greater than j as this portion right here I is equal to j then here I is less then G here
I is than J, i is less than J.
Then here I is greater than j  space then i Is equal to J sar.
So this is how spaces and stars will give you that pattern. that's all in this video in the next video
I'll show you one more pattern on a small example i will take and I will show you, so with this you can draw
various other patterns as you like.
So you try this, write a program and check it by yourself.
I have just written for loop so inside main function you write them and run it.